contrib/README.md, before:

Wallet Tools
---------------------

### [SpendFrom](/contrib/spendfrom) ###

Use the raw transactions API to send coins received on a particular
address (or addresses).

Repository Tools
---------------------

### [Developer tools](/contrib/devtools) ###
Specific tools for developers working on this repository.
Contains the script `github-merge.py` for merging github pull requests securely and signing them using GPG.

### [Verify-Commits](/contrib/verify-commits) ###
Tool to verify that every merge commit was signed by a developer using the above `github-merge.py` script.

### [Linearize](/contrib/linearize) ###
Construct a linear, no-fork, best version of the blockchain.

### [Qos](/contrib/qos) ###

A Linux bash script that will set up traffic control (tc) to limit the outgoing bandwidth for connections to the Absolute network. This means one can have an always-on absoluted instance running, and another local absoluted/absolute-qt instance which connects to this node and receives blocks from it.

### [Seeds](/contrib/seeds) ###
Utility to generate the pnSeed[] array that is compiled into the client.

Build Tools and Keys
---------------------

### [Debian](/contrib/debian) ###
Contains files used to package absoluted/absolute-qt
for Debian-based Linux systems. If you compile absoluted/absolute-qt yourself, there are some useful files here.

### [Gitian-descriptors](/contrib/gitian-descriptors) ###
Notes on getting Gitian builds up and running using KVM.

### [Gitian-keys](/contrib/gitian-keys)
PGP keys used for signing Bitcoin Core [Gitian release](/doc/release-process.md) results.

### [MacDeploy](/contrib/macdeploy) ###
Scripts and notes for Mac builds. 

Test and Verify Tools 
---------------------

### [TestGen](/contrib/testgen) ###
Utilities to generate test vectors for the data-driven Absolute tests.

### [Verify SF Binaries](/contrib/verifysfbinaries) ###
This script attempts to download and verify the signature file SHA256SUMS.asc from SourceForge.

Commit message:

Easy to use gitian building script
3fe0b68 Set defaults to gitian defaults (Andrew Chow)
6ffd6b4 Create option to detach sign gitian builds and not commit the files in the script (Andrew Chow)
498d8da Check for OSX SDK (Andrew Chow)
eda4cfb Create an easy to use gitian building script (Andrew Chow)

contrib/README.md, after:

Wallet Tools
---------------------

### [SpendFrom](/contrib/spendfrom) ###

Use the raw transactions API to send coins received on a particular
address (or addresses).

Repository Tools
---------------------

### [Developer tools](/contrib/devtools) ###
Specific tools for developers working on this repository.
Contains the script `github-merge.py` for merging github pull requests securely and signing them using GPG.

### [Verify-Commits](/contrib/verify-commits) ###
Tool to verify that every merge commit was signed by a developer using the above `github-merge.py` script.

### [Linearize](/contrib/linearize) ###
Construct a linear, no-fork, best version of the blockchain.

### [Qos](/contrib/qos) ###

A Linux bash script that will set up traffic control (tc) to limit the outgoing bandwidth for connections to the Absolute network. This means one can have an always-on absoluted instance running, and another local absoluted/absolute-qt instance which connects to this node and receives blocks from it.

### [Seeds](/contrib/seeds) ###
Utility to generate the pnSeed[] array that is compiled into the client.

Build Tools and Keys
---------------------

### [Debian](/contrib/debian) ###
Contains files used to package absoluted/absolute-qt
for Debian-based Linux systems. If you compile absoluted/absolute-qt yourself, there are some useful files here.

### [Gitian-descriptors](/contrib/gitian-descriptors) ###
Notes on getting Gitian builds up and running using KVM.

### [Gitian-keys](/contrib/gitian-keys)
PGP keys used for signing Bitcoin Core [Gitian release](/doc/release-process.md) results.

### [MacDeploy](/contrib/macdeploy) ###
Scripts and notes for Mac builds. 

### [Gitian-build](/contrib/gitian-build.sh) ###
Script for running full gitian builds.
Test and Verify Tools 
---------------------

### [TestGen](/contrib/testgen) ###
Utilities to generate test vectors for the data-driven Absolute tests.

### [Verify Binaries](/contrib/verifybinaries) ###
This script attempts to download and verify the signature file SHA256SUMS.asc from bitcoin.org.
